
# WordNet-BR

## About the files

The file was generated by combining the following data:

- Princeton WordNet 3.0 was used to obtain English glosses and English
  terms for synset IDs.

- The unreleased 2010-12 version UWN and MENTA provided candidate
  terms in Portuguese, candidate glosses in Portuguese (from
  Wikipedia), and candidate terms in Spanish.

- The EuroWordNet base concept list (`5000_bc.xml`) provides the base
  concept numbers. The original file was mapped from WordNet 2.0 to
  3.0 using the mappings from WN-Map [wn-map]
  When multiple mappings for a WordNet 2.0 synset existed, all
  possible WordNet 3.0 synsets were kept. Hence, there may be multiple
  entries with the same base concept number.
  
## Instruction for collaborators

The Instructions for manual annotators are:

- Read the English gloss and the English words.

- Come up with Portuguese words that represent the same meaning as the
  gloss in and write them into "PT-Words-Man". Be careful not to be
  misguided by English words with multiple meanings. You can use the
  Portuguese and Spanish candidates as a guide, but keep in mind that
  they were automatically generated and may be entirely wrong.
  
- Optionally: Write a Portuguese gloss into the "PT-Gloss" field. This
  may be shorter than the English gloss.
  
It might be a good idea to have a WordNet browser open as well
when doing the annotation, so that you can check hyponyms/hypernyms
(or subclasses/parent classes): 

http://www.lexvo.org/uwn/entity/s/n2084071

Another good page to leave open is some online English-Portuguese
translation dictionary.
  
## Team

- Alexandre Rademaker
- Gerard de Melo
- Valeria de Paiva
- Rafael Haeusler

## References

[wn-map]: http://nlp.lsi.upc.edu/web/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=21&Itemid=57
